2019-October-25 - dev-meeting
===============================

### python bisect

Cool built-in module I hadn't known about.

#### Example usage...

    >>>
    >>> import bisect
    >>>
    >>> lst = [ 0, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100 ]
    >>>
    >>> bisect.bisect( lst, 12 )
    1
    >>>
    >>> bisect.bisect( lst, 68 )
    4
    >>>

What this is doing is taking the list, and a submitted value, and returning the index-value of where that item would be if it were to be inserted into the given list.

So, using the examples above, `12` would be at position #1 (zero-index counting), and `68` would be at position #4.

#### Real-world usage...

_All_ credit for this cool code goes to [T.L.](https://github.com/lawlesst)...

One aspect of the book-locator project (example [bib](https://search.library.brown.edu/catalog/b1815113), and [map](https://library.brown.edu/book_locator/map/?loc=rock&call=CT275.P648%20A33%20c.3&title=Zen%20and%20the%20art%20of%20motorcycle%20maintenance:%20an%20inquiry%20into%20values)) involves [indexing](https://github.com/birkin/book_locator_project/blob/master/book_locator_app/lib/index.py) a google-doc spreadsheet that contains beginning and ending callnumber ranges of a given aisle. Most aisles are forthright; the beginning may be 'AA...' and the end 'AN...'. In the spreadsheet, this aisle will have one row. But occasionally there will be two separate beginning and end ranges for the same aisle. This happens when, for example, there's a special callnumber range that has to be accounted for. So the beginning range may be 'BB...' and halfway through that part of the range will end at, say, 'BD...', and then there'll be a range of, say, '1-SIZE BC...' ending at '1-SIZE BE...'. In this case that aisle will have two rows in the spreadsheet.

How is this actually handled in the book-locator webapp?

- As noted, each row of the spreadsheet contains a begin and end-range, and floor, aisle, and other info.

- The 'begin' callnumber of each row is 'normalized, and put into a list. (So "CT275 N" becomes "CT 027500N".)

- Then this list is sorted, and stored as a json file.

- Also, a dictionary (hash) is also created, with each key being the normalized callnumber, and the value being the floor, aisle, etc info. This too is stored as a json file.

- The spreadsheet is auto-inspected a few times a day to see if there have been changes, and if so, the files are recreated.

- Then, when the web-app needs to display the location-map, the incoming callnumber is normalized, and `bisect` is applied to see where in the list it would go. Then the previous entry in the list is grabbed, and used as the key to look up the proper floor, aisle, etc info to display to the user.

This handles both the normal beginning and ending ranges, as well as the unusual ones. Simple, elegant, brilliant.


---

---
